# Ateliware Tech Assesment

Hello!

I'd like to start by congratulating the test, as it was truly interesting and challenging. Which is why I'm sorry to inform that I couldn't do everything I planned. I didn't have as much time as I wanted, so I focused on a few things.

To start, this workspace was generated by [Nx](https://nx.dev). My idea was to create a monorepo with an Angular 16 app, a shared TS lib with some interfaces and a simple express server to run the algorithm. Also using [Nx Cloud](https://nx.app/) to handle a few things.

In the end I didn't add the server, so all calculation is happening on the front-end. On the cases I tested the algorithm seemed fast/efficient enough for that not to be an issue.

## The Angular App

To start the development server you can run `nx serve ateliware-test` and open the browser on http://localhost:4200/. To run tests, you may use `nx run ateliware-test:test`.

In this Angular 16 app, I used standalone components and directives. It also uses Angular Material for UI components and Tailwind for some styling.

The `coordinates-form` component uses Angular's Reactive Forms to handle validation and status control, while the `route-result` context uses a bit of RxJS to handle some asynchronous workflows.

Some tests are using the `ng-mocks` library to facilitate rendering/mocking.

There were a few things I thought of doing but didn't have time:

- Create a 8x8 board, and allow users to place tokens on the board for each input of the form
- After calculating the fastest route, show an animation of the drone running that route in the board
- Create a better UI. I used some basic Material components to get the job done and focused on a decent UX (clear validation messages, loading indicator and disabling the button on some cases). But with more time I could improve it visually.
- Add cypress tests. I thought of adding some `data-testId` attributes to prepare to this but seeing as I wouldn't have enough time I didn't

## The Shared Lib

There are some interfaces which I planned on sharing between front and back, but the routing algorithm is also here.

## The Algorithm

The `find-fastest-route.ts` file contains the algorithm for calculating the shortest route between 2 points in a square board.

It's based on a Depth First Search algorithm. It calculates the shortest paths between the 2 points, and checks which is faster. Then, it uses DFS to search for a path that may be longer but also faster.

Internally, it keeps track of the fastest route found while calculating the time ellapsed for each new route. If the time ellapsed is already higher than the fastest one found, it gives up on that particular route.

I didn't create as many tests as I intented, but you may run them with `nx run shared:test`

## Missing things

- Containerization
  - I though of using Docker for the express server and its storage solution but since I couldn't do the server I skipped this part
- The server
  - I though of a simple server with 2 endpoints, one to calculate the route and another to retrieve the latest routes
  - Maybe also a websocket to notify when a new calculation happend and thus the latest routes list was updated
  - It would also store the result (probably on a SQL server)
- ## Cloud availability
